often we're asked why don't victims just
leave this is a really complex crime and
perpetrators use a multitude of tactics to coerce
and manipulate their victims perpetrators exploit
the victim's immigration status they may withhold
their documentation the victim might not even
have any documentation they may use the victim's
dependency or emotional attachment to them they
may use threats of physical violence against them
or towards their family members to gain complicity
exploiters will use any vulnerability to gain
power and control over that individual sometimes
perpetrators make victims fearful of authorities
and unaware of anything support that is available
to them the victim may feel indebted to the
exploiter financially or in other ways the victim
themselves may be complicit with what is going
on and could be receiving some money housing or
security and even if this is the case it does not
mean they are not being exploited and controlled
victims limited choices and circumstances
increase the exposure to manipulation by
the perpetrators which can lead to a cycle of
exploitation that they cannot see a way out all
of these factors and more leveraged upon a victim
just increases the exploiters control over them